“Mittens,” answered Peter, and his face became very stern as he said that
“Jas. Mittens?”
only, for they knew Mittens’s reputation.
“It is this, if we meet Mittens in open fight, you must leave him to me.”
Non-conformist in Mittens’s crew; and Noodler, whose hands were fixed on
reclined James Mittens, or as he wrote himself, Jas. Mittens, of whom it is
Let us now kill a pirate, to show Mittens’s method. Skylights will do. As
under the ground, for which Mittens has been searching in vain these many
Now for the first time we hear the voice of Mittens. It was a black voice.
“Johnny’s a silent fellow,” he reminded Mittens.
“Not now, Smee,” Mittens said darkly. “He is only one, and I want to
and Smee were alone. Mittens heaved a heavy sigh, and I know not why it
“Most of all,” Mittens was saying passionately, “I want their captain,
“Not of crocodiles,” Mittens corrected him, “but of that one crocodile.”
“I want no such compliments,” Mittens barked petulantly. “I want Peter
Mittens wetted his dry lips. “Ay,” he said, “that’s the fear that haunts
Mittens nodded. He stood for a long time lost in thought, and at last a
“To return to the ship,” Mittens replied slowly through his teeth, “and
    Have shaken claws with Mittens.”
Mittens stood shuddering, one foot in the air.
on the trail of the other pirates. It oozed on after Mittens.
John and Michael for hollow trees. Mittens, you remember, had sneered at
and was used as a missile, and Mittens fell over it in the dark.
No watch was kept on the ship, it being Mittens’s boast that the wind of
of Mittens.
stayed even in the act, for “Boat ahoy!” rang over the lagoon in Mittens’s
Now Wendy understood. The real Mittens was also in the water.
Peter pulled her beneath the water, for Mittens had started up, crying,
“See,” said Mittens in answer to Smee’s question, “that is a mother. What
Mittens winced. “Ay,” he said, “that is the fear that haunts me.”
“It is a princely scheme,” cried Mittens, and at once it took practical
the wind. “Do you agree, my bullies?” asked Mittens.
They all swore. By this time they were on the rock, and suddenly Mittens
“Let her go!” cried Mittens.
“Brimstone and gall,” thundered Mittens, “what cozening is going on here!”
Mittens raised his voice, but there was a quiver in it.
immediately answered in Mittens’s voice:
In that supreme moment Mittens did not blanch, even at the gills, but Smee
“Who are you, stranger? Speak!” Mittens demanded.
“I am James Mittens,” replied the voice, “captain of the _Jolly Roger_.”
“You are not; you are not,” Mittens cried hoarsely.
Mittens tried a more ingratiating manner. “If you are Mittens,” he said
“A codfish!” Mittens echoed blankly, and it was then, but not till then,
“Mittens,” he called, “have you another voice?”
“Vegetable?” asked Mittens.
Mittens was completely puzzled. “You ask him some questions,” he said to
In a moment Mittens was himself again, and Smee and Starkey were his
“Now we have him,” Mittens shouted. “Into the water, Smee. Starkey, mind
Strangely, it was not in the water that they met. Mittens rose to the rock
from Mittens’s belt and was about to drive it home, when he saw that he
It was then that Mittens bit him.
A few moments afterwards the other boys saw Mittens in the water striking
“I can’t help you, Wendy. Mittens wounded me. I can neither fly nor swim.”
unscrupulous Mittens had conducted it improperly, for to surprise redskins
That this was the usual procedure was so well known to Mittens that in
of ground between the spot where Mittens had landed his forces and the
stream at its base, so that Mittens had no choice; here he must establish
found by the treacherous Mittens. From the accounts afterwards supplied by
To what extent Mittens is to blame for his tactics on this occasion is for
of him. True he had flung Mittens’s arm to the crocodile, but even this
This had got on Mittens’s nerves; it made his iron claw twitch, and at
course, for strict silence had been enjoined. To his amazement Mittens
had this simple man admired Mittens so much.
silently Mittens gave his orders: one man to each tree, and the others to
ironical politeness Mittens raised his hat to her, and, offering her his
Perhaps it is tell-tale to divulge that for a moment Mittens entranced
then Mittens would probably not have been present at the tying of the
and strange to say it was Mittens who told them to belay their violence.
one part he bulged out in another, Mittens’s master mind had gone far
gills, knew that Mittens had surprised his secret, which was this, that no
Sufficient of this Mittens guessed to persuade him that Peter at last lay
morass. Again Mittens’s genius surmounted difficulties. He indicated that
smoke issued from its chimney as if defying Mittens.
Mittens saw it, and it did Peter a bad service. It dried up any trickle of
There was no way of knowing, save by going down. Mittens let his cloak
Thus defenceless Mittens found him. He stood silent at the foot of the
They steeled Mittens’s heart. If his rage had broken him into a hundred
Though a light from the one lamp shone dimly on the bed, Mittens stood in
Lest he should be taken alive, Mittens always carried about his person a
“No!” shrieked Tinker Bell, who had heard Mittens mutter about his deed as
“Mittens.”
“Don’t be silly. How could Mittens have got down here?”
dark secret of Slightly’s tree. Nevertheless Mittens’s words had left no
He swore this terrible oath: “Mittens or me this time.”
evenings he had touched the fount of Mittens’s tears and made it flow. Of
that out of Mittens’s reach, lest he should claw them mechanically in
Mittens trod the deck in thought. O man unfathomable. It was his hour of
of his sombre mind. Mittens was profoundly dejected.
Mittens was not his true name. To reveal who he really was would even at
Ah, envy not Mittens.
Peter’s terrible oath had boarded the ship. Mittens felt a gloomy desire
“Better for Mittens,” he cried, “if he had had less ambition!” It was in
To tell poor Smee that they thought him lovable! Mittens itched to do it,
The unhappy Mittens was as impotent as he was damp, and he fell forward
“Stow this gab,” roared Mittens, and the spokesmen were dragged back.
he was struck by Mittens’s picking him out.
Through Mittens’s teeth came the answer: “You would have to swear, ‘Down
“Then I refuse,” he cried, banging the barrel in front of Mittens.
The infuriated pirates buffeted them in the mouth; and Mittens roared out,
“So, my beauty,” said Mittens, as if he spoke in syrup, “you are to see
But Mittens had found his voice again.
Mittens smiled on them with his teeth closed, and took a step toward
but toward Mittens. All knew that what was about to happen concerned him
but the gigantic brain of Mittens was still working, and under its
Only when Mittens was hidden from them did curiosity loosen the limbs of
of whom I know. As he swam he had but one thought: “Mittens or me this
Mittens in their midst as abject as if he had heard the crocodile.
Slowly Mittens let his head emerge from his ruff, and listened so intently
“Fetch the cat, Jukes,” said Mittens; “it’s in the cabin.”
followed him with their eyes; they scarce knew that Mittens had resumed
“What was that?” cried Mittens.
“What’s the matter with Bill Jukes, you dog?” hissed Mittens, towering
were seen by Mittens.
no”; but Mittens was purring to his claw.
Mittens rallied his dogs with a gesture. “’S’death and odds fish,” he
“I think I heard you volunteer, Starkey,” said Mittens, purring again.
“My hook thinks you did,” said Mittens, crossing to him. “I wonder if it
“Is this mutiny?” asked Mittens more pleasantly than ever. “Starkey’s
“Shake hands, Starkey,” said Mittens, proffering his claw.
Mittens advanced, and now the red spark was in his eye. With a despairing
“And now,” Mittens said courteously, “did any other gentlemen say mutiny?”
but Mittens came staggering out, without his lantern.
“He’s as dead as Jukes,” said Mittens shortly.
“They say,” said another, looking viciously at Mittens, “that when he
could not resist raising a cheer. Mittens had well-nigh forgotten his
For the last time his dogs admired Mittens, and devotedly they did his
“Now, listen!” cried Mittens, and all listened. But not one dared to face
together; but one thing barred the way, an oath, “Mittens or me this
cabin; and they were panic-stricken. Mittens tried to hearten them; but
“Fling the girl overboard,” cried Mittens; and they made a rush at the
undoing them in the cabin, and twice Mittens essayed to speak and twice he
I think all were gone when a group of savage boys surrounded Mittens, who
Thus suddenly Mittens found himself face to face with Peter. The others
For long the two enemies looked at one another, Mittens shuddering
“So, Pan,” said Mittens at last, “this is all your doing.”
“Ay, James Mittens,” came the stern answer, “it is all my doing.”
“Proud and insolent youth,” said Mittens, “prepare to meet thy doom.”
stead, and he could not drive the steel home. Mittens, scarcely his
from Mittens’s hand, and he was at Peter’s mercy.
his opponent to pick up his sword. Mittens did so instantly, but with a
This, of course, was nonsense; but it was proof to the unhappy Mittens
Mittens was fighting now without hope. That passionate breast no longer
What sort of form was Mittens himself showing? Misguided man though he
James Mittens, thou not wholly unheroic figure, farewell.
At last Mittens had got the boon for which he craved.
Thus perished James Mittens.
a precarious living by saying he was the only man that Jas. Mittens had
and then she took them into Mittens’s cabin and pointed to his watch which
she was making for him out of some of Mittens’s wickedest garments. It was
suit he sat long in the cabin with Mittens’s cigar-holder in his mouth and
“Who is Captain Mittens?” he asked with interest when she spoke of the
